Day1 Of Learing C++

Hey there, 
We are starting with a text file because there isn't any code work in the start.

Variable(var)- Value can be changed.
Constant- Value can't be changed.

Data Types- 
Premitive       Derived        User-Defined
    |               |               |
Int             Function       Class
Float           Arrays         Structure
Character       Pointer        Union
Boolean         Reference      Enum

Int- 4 bytes (1 byte = 8 bits)
Int means Integers.
Range for numbers you can have in int datatype- 0 to 2^32-1
This is unsigned, meaning all are positive numbers.

In signed range-
first bit, which is also called the Most Significant Bit(MSB)
is used, if the value of the MSB is 0, then the number is +ve
and if the MSB is 1, the number is -ve. 
Range - -2^31 to 2^31-1

Float- 4 bytes
Float means Decimal numbers and can have upto 7 decimal digits.
For more use Double, it can have upto 15 decimal digits.

Char for Character- 1 byte
It means Characters such as alphabets and symbols.
Since there are lots of them, there is a ASCII table to know 
memory space of chars.

Bool for Boolean- 1 byte
It means either True or False.
1 means True and 0 means False.

Before knowing how to code we have to understand what these 
certain things mean in a code-

#include<iostream>

int main(){

    std::cout<<"Hello World";
    return 0;

}

Line 42 is a processor directive used to inclue files, meaning we inclued a file
named iostream. Now what is iostream, it is a header file for taking input and 
printing output. Functions like cin and cout that we'll use come from iostream.

Line 44 is the beginning of program execution, meaning when we will run the program
the execution will start from there. Also, know that those curly braces are extremely 
important, they show that a certain function starts form here to there.

Line 46, std is the library from where the program will extract the functions. You can also 
write 
using namespace std;
right below line 42 if you have to use its functions lots of times. 
After that, cout is the function that is used for printings output, currently the output will 
be that text, 'Hello World'. And the simicolon indicates the end of statement.

Line 47, has return 0, it is the exit status of a function. 

And the code ends with line 49 which has the closings curly brace that show the int main ends here.

Also, programs are made and handled by humans, it is necessary that the code is not messy. 
Making the code beautifull is a topic for another time, for now we'll know about comments. 
Comments are made for programs to understand code, it is ignored by systems while running.
Like, if I created a program and I want anyone reading it to know what the program is about, 
we use comments.

// is used for single line comments and
/* is used for multiline comments, 
these one are needed to be closed also.*/ 

